---
title: Soil Characteristics
layout: post
---

Most soil characteristics (for each horizon), as listed in Table 1 and
provided in the *initConditions.*csv, can be measured on a subsample of
the soil that is being incubated. Very common and useful variables to
measure are initial C and N (reported in mg C or N gdw^-1^ or %), bulk
density in g cm^-3^, and pH. Of these, reporting initial C is essential
for facilitating comparisons across studies.

It can be useful to measure pH values in the soil solution on a regular
basis during the incubation for the following reasons; first, if the
soil pH is more neutral or basic, C mineralization might be confounded
by high carbonate concentrations (Billings et al., 2004); second, pH
values are known to change over the course of an incubation, thereby
possibly affecting both the microbial community composition (Fierer et
al., 2007) and the solubility of CO~2~ in the soil water, which has to
be considered when calculating CO~2~ flux rates from incubation studies.
Additionally, microbial growth and many microbial nutrient cycling
processes (e.g. N mineralization, nitrification and denitrification),
and mineral-organic associations are affected by pH (Kalbitz and Kaiser,
2008).

Soil redox conditions can have an important effect on the oxidation
state of mineralized soil C released (Knorr and Blodau, 2009; Peters and
Conrad, 1996). For anaerobic incubations, it may not be sufficient to
assume that anoxic conditions (e.g. soils inundated with water and
headspace filled with N~2~ or He) will result in the production of CH~4~
during the duration of an incubation and studies have shown that there
can be a considerable lag period before CH~4~ production occurs in an
incubation (Knoblauch et al., 2018). Accurately measuring soil redox
potential in an incubation can be difficult and costly due to large
spatial heterogeneity of soil redox conditions, however obtaining this
information is valuable when interpreting results in the context of the
potential for a soil to produce methane.

Simple microbial parameters that are usually well correlated with
heterotrophic respiration rates are microbial biomass and microbial
stoichiometry (ÄŒapek et al., 2015). Microbial biomass is often estimated
by the chloroform-fumigation extraction method, which also allows
measuring microbial C and/or N and thus allows stoichiometric analyses.
Other measures of microbial biomass use biomarkers, such as DNA or
phospholipid fatty acids to estimate microbial biomass or activity-based
methods, such as the substrate-induced respiration method (need
citation).
